- What was the question again?
You wanted to know just how it got into startup?
(upbeat music)
- So someone pointed out something a little interesting
in our Discord that both me and you have
a good amount of experience going down the startup path.
And I think both of us kind of take it for granted
'cause we've just been in that world for so long.
And they ask, can we do an episode on what it's like
and why we did it and our experiences with it.
So yeah, I think we can start with you
sharing a little bit about what your experiences was like.
- Yeah, sure.
No, I was just gonna say,
I can't believe we'd ever thought to do this episode.
Like it never was on my radar at all.
- Yeah, so obvious.
- So I guess I started Stamped News
with a long time friend back in 2014.
I had kind of like first five, six years of my career,
done freelance stuff, had a little like software agency
and saved up some money and then kind of quit my job
with my co-founder and started Stamped News.
I had always wanted to do something higher risk.
Like I knew I had a really good job, paid really well,
but it was still like just a hyping job.
And ultimately like a lot of it was my friendship
with my co-founder Eli, we'd grown up together.
And we always kind of had said like,
eventually we're gonna do something together.
We both were at a point in our career
where we could kind of take a break
and just quit our jobs and try it.
That was a lot of it for me.
It was just like wanna do something with this person
and wanna do something higher risk, higher leverage,
not just kind of hours in, hours out,
which is what my career had been to that point.
That was the main reason.
Yeah, getting into it.
Did anyone tell you it was a bad idea
or did you think it was a bad idea?
It's so hard to remember now.
I mean, it's been eight years, nine years ago.
I don't remember, I know my wife was really supportive.
Like we had saved quite a bit.
So we were in a pretty good position.
We had just built a house and just had a baby.
So in that sense, it was kind of like awful timing,
but it all worked out in the end.
I guess it could have gone really badly.
We did go a really long time.
So I'd say six months in, my wife was like,
"Was this a good idea, are we sure?"
'Cause we thought we'd raised pretty quick.
And I think it was a year before we actually raised,
which we don't even know.
I don't even know honestly how we sort of like
weathered that storm.
We didn't think we had that much saved.
Like we didn't have a whole year runway,
but somehow we kept the lights on, I guess.
I mean, I know how.
I'd liquidated all my retirement accounts.
That's what it was.
I forgot.
Yeah, what about you?
Yeah, I think for me, I think similarly,
I always knew I wanted to do that.
It was very clear.
I had measures before.
My dad is also a software engineer,
which I think I take for granted a lot,
but it gave me a lot of perspective.
He pretty much spent his whole career.
Again, a very successful career,
worked his way pretty high up,
had an extremely high paying job.
But like you said, at the end of the day,
it's just high paying job.
And I kind of witnessed how he hit
a ceiling where he just couldn't break through,
both on the compensation side,
like there's a ceiling on how much money you can make.
But also on the freedom side,
at the end of the day, he still had to
make sure some other person was happy
so he can get his high paying salary.
And his day to day, he liked his job,
but there were a lot of parts of it that
he didn't like and just dealt with
and didn't really have any power
really to make that any different.
Yeah.
Similarly, I started out as a consultant,
like you, I like worked freelance, independent.
And it was very clear that, okay,
if I'm gonna work 60 hours a week,
I'm just gonna get 60 hours of pay.
And of course, that rate went up over time,
but it's pretty like linear.
Like it just goes up into linear amount.
And at some point, you kind of cap out.
I wasn't building anything that compounded over time.
I wasn't really able to take advantage of my skill set.
And the other thing with a high paying job is
if you are very, very, very good at what you do
at a company,
you probably might make like 20 or 30% more
than someone who is not very good at what they do
at the company.
A company is never gonna pay you
like five times more than they pay someone else.
So at a certain point,
you just have to go down your own route, I think,
if you really wanna capitalize on that.
No company is gonna really meet your value
if you think you have, you know, really high value.
The only real way to capture that is
by building something you own.
So I think yeah, it was clear for me.
And I think at a young age, I did start a company
with a friend similar to you, like a childhood friend
that I knew really well.
I mean, that's really key if you start a company.
I know it's worked out with people
where they've met random co-founders, but in general,
it is one of the most intimate relationships
you're ever gonna have in your life.
And yeah, you need to do it with someone
that you have some background with.
So you're not going into it, like,
learning all this stuff about this person.
Like you already know their quirks
and you already know how your relationship
with each other is gonna work out.
That company got aqua-hired.
And then pretty much my whole career since then,
I've been either very early stage employee,
like either the first real employee or, you know,
in a founder role.
And yeah, I've loved every second of it.
It's something that is extremely hard.
But like I said, my primary goal is to have freedom
with my life and making it exactly how I want it to be.
And you can't really do that when someone else
is telling you, okay, you have to be here at this time
to make this money.
Yeah, so that underlying motivation,
no matter whether it's going good or bad,
I know that I just didn't give up on any of it
'cause that was the most important thing.
- Yeah, so that I would say like going from consulting
or freelance to startup life,
it was like on the one hand doing it
for kind of financial reasons,
like hoping to have a bigger outcome in the long run.
It was a near-term shock though.
I mean, like a lot of changes of lifestyle immediately.
So just like making a lot less as an entrepreneur, I guess.
But that freedom that you said, like that was
the noticeable thing is like you thought you're free
when you're freelance before that,
like you're kind of like you're dating all of your clients.
You're not really like married anybody.
So you feel like you're kind of roaming around.
But at the end of the day,
like people are expecting things of you every single day.
And once you start a startup, you realize like,
it's a blessing and a curse.
But like nobody's expecting anything of you.
Like I was pretty well shielded from our investors.
My co-founder kind of managing those relationships.
And it's really like, I had five years there
where you kind of have to decide what's worth doing every day,
which is super fun and liberating,
but also that part can be stressful
because you kind of doubt like,
am I doing the right thing?
Are we going the right way?
Like all that stuff.
- I mean, the classic thing is I think every founder
resonates with this.
There's days where you wake up and you're like,
wow, we are amazing.
We are doing every single thing, right?
And literally the week after that, you wake up
and you'll feel like this is a huge mistake.
You're doing every single thing wrong.
- Yeah.
- So it's a crazy roller coaster.
And I heard you say this the other day,
which me and Liz have talked a lot about
where you said your co-founder Eli is like,
skill is that he just refuses to let Satmuse die.
- Yeah.
- And that at the end of the day is the only thing
that really is like just not giving up for enough time.
You're going to have something that works out.
I think Paul Graham has a whole essay about this
where he just like, if you refuse to die, you'll get rich.
That's like startups are very complicated.
Lots of things you have to figure out.
But then in the day, if you stick with it long enough,
there's just so many moments where you can give up and quit.
If you just refuse to do that for long enough,
that's just going to work out and it just can't.
So if you optimize for your motivation,
that's kind of the thing that matters than the day.
- Yeah, okay.
I've got a quick anecdote about my co-founder.
So we started Satmuse, which is like a sports statistic site.
And we started with the MBA.
We were both big basketball fans.
We were actually both co-captains of our high school basketball team.
So I'm really tall.
I mean, I'm not really tall.
I'm like six, three, six, four, but I have like long legs.
I'm a pretty good runner, but I'm like a short distance runner.
Like I'm such a sprinter, which show maps to my like work style.
I could run really, like when we did our conditioning drills in basketball,
I could run like a set of 10, like we run the court 10 times.
I could run them like in 49 seconds, which is really fast.
But we had this thing every year, our coach did, it was like this thing
we dreaded all year that was called 10 set day, where we had to do 10 sets of 10.
So it's just like long endurance thing.
And I could not make it through 10 set day.
I never did my whole four years of high school.
Like I just gave up halfway through or whatever.
And Eli was like dragging freshmen to the, like he's just like, that is his thing.
It's like he will not quit anything.
So it's so mapped to Satmuse.
Like five years in, we sort of like hit a point where our relationship,
into your point, like you got to really know the person.
There's just so many hard things when it comes to startup stuff.
I can't imagine doing it with somebody that I didn't really know or that I had,
like if you have reasons to bail because you don't really have a good relationship,
you're going to bail, I would think.
And Eli being kind of this long time friendship of mine and just his personality
really made it possible to be there five years.
But ultimately, like I haven't been there for the last three years.
And Eli's still been going.
I think that is such a huge, huge part of it.
Yeah, yeah, it's, it just does blow down to that endurance thing.
And you know, I've been doing this for a very, very long time.
Like my whole career pretty much have been around this world.
And that this concept didn't really click for me until I would say this year,
where now that me and Liz are working on something together,
it's, it's just so clear that that's the challenge that's just constantly
in the back of your head.
Yep.
But yeah, if you can, if you can conquer that, it is, that's really all you need to do.
You have some form of success eventually.
I think people say this all the time, they're like, companies don't run our money.
It's at the founders run energy.
There's like always a way to keep going if, if you can do it.
Can we talk about how we have these like freaky similar stories at our startups?
Yeah.
Well, yeah, I guess like I just said, I haven't been at Sami's for three years.
So like five years in Eli fired me, which was like a whole shock.
I was depressed for months.
I mean, I knew like we couldn't keep going the way that we were going.
We both were just at each other so bad after five years.
And like there was just a lot of personal, each of us kind of resented each other and
lost a lot of respect for each other over various things.
We were just pretty like toxic and we had to have like somebody on a call with us.
We just couldn't get anything done.
So it needed to happen, but it was still a shock.
And then ultimately like gone for three years during that period, had new investors come
in and buy a lot of my stake in the company.
So then I don't know how we discovered we have like this exact same story, but we were
talking a reinvent and the same thing basically happened to you, right?
Timing and everything.
Yeah.
Probably the exact same time.
I think I was like maybe like six months after all this happened to you like I was like
it's like a six month offset, so a similar story I early stage company was going incredibly
well.
And then at some point me and the founder just started to run to a whole bunch of issues.
In my case, it was the founder was pretty inexperienced and he was just hiring a bunch
of people that had no business to be the startup and just kind of we went from being like the
best company I ever worked at to like the worst company I ever worked at in a span of
six months or so.
And then like a whole bunch of stuff like he like wasn't transparent about all these deals
he did with the investors, like I ended up diluting everyone and ways that did not make
any sense.
So it just got to a point where we were just like it was really bad.
I think I was like basically refusing to work at some point because they like completely
messed up all my compensation stuff.
And eventually he fired me, which again, similar situation like I should have been fired and
I was just kind of waiting for it to happen and it happened and like it was actually crazy.
I then went back to consulting and I was like, why am I getting so much work done?
Like I'm spending like two hours a day and I'm getting like way more work done.
It turned out just the energy toll of being in a place that was just constant agitation
and constant fighting that just takes up your entire daily, you're probably just sitting
there thinking about these are having these arguments in your head, like every single
day.
Yeah.
And that takes up a big amount of your time.
But then similarly to you somehow and this company should be dead and again, going back
to less, keeping stuff alive forever, this company 100% should be dead.
It's still alive today.
At some point, somehow new investors came in to this disaster of a company and I was
like, Hey, hey, buy my equity out and they did and I guarantee you to this day, I will
be the only person that ever makes money off of the startup.
It's just been like an investor after an investor coming in and losing their money.
So yeah, because they bought us out and yeah, so fired by the CEO, both of us at a company
where we spent, you know, a lot of time putting in all of our effort.
Yeah.
But then we got, we got something out of it.
I'm actually back at Satmys now and I don't think I'll be the only person to make money.
I'm, I'm back on Satmys.
I'm on the rocket ship.
We're going to the moon.
And that's how you always feel when you're a startup, except when you don't, like you
said, it's every other week.
It's such a rollercoaster.
Like it really is.
There were so many times we were close to acquisition and you're just on this mountain.
But it's those moments when you're close to acquisition for us.
We were, there's a few times that things were going so well.
That's why we were close to acquisition.
You're kind of almost too optimistic and like you get all like stingy.
Like, I don't want to take just any deal.
And then it falls through and you go into like a trough of depression and you take whatever
anybody would give you, but nobody wants to because it's, it's just how it works.
Yeah.
It's kind of exactly what happened to us too, was we were doing really well.
And then I just kind of took my hands off of, okay, I'm just going to focus on engineering
stuff and I mistakenly like let some parts of the company go.
And that's when like, you know, all like the terrible deals with the investors happened.
Just again, because of an experience from the CEO, yeah.
I think at this point he owns must, he must own like 3% of the company and he's not even
CEO anymore.
So I'm like, it's just not worth your time anymore.
You know, it's like, yeah, it's a bad situation.
I mean, I also did get something out of it.
I met Liz, my wife at the company.
So in a way, best possible exit.
Yeah.
But you can have.
So it's your stake.
Found a wife.
Yeah.
So it worked out pretty well.
So we had a bunch of questions and we, I think we kind of posed this that we were doing this
episode.
This is unique for us.
Yeah.
So we had a few questions that people in Twitch had asked so we can, we can go over
them.
So I'm going to try to do this in order that is somewhat cohesive.
So people asked at what stage in your career does a start startup become logical to pursue?
Any thoughts on that?
I mean, for me, it was after we had some money saved.
I mean, maybe you do it right out of call.
I don't know.
Are there pros and cons?
I could have missed something.
How I would have done it though, when I was, we were newlywed, had I not been married yet?
Maybe right out of school, I could have done something like this, but I think with any one
person, kind of like depending on you in any way, it would make it really hard, I think.
So I was all about making money right after school.
Here's the thing I, you definitely should not do.
I think a lot of people think about it this way.
They're like, I need to have XYZ experience before I go do this, like you're like preparing
for the thing.
But the best way to prepare is just actually do the thing, like there's no, like, of course
you're going to learn skills in any place you work, but I think people have this like
life plan where they're like, I'm going to go work at a big company.
Then I'm going to work at a small company, then I'm going to go.
It's just like life doesn't work that way, just if you want to do the thing, just go
do it.
Yeah.
I think the major constraint, I think what you just said speaks of this is a, it does
take a lot of focus and effort.
So you have to figure out what is like the baseline of your life that you can support
while you're entirely focused on this thing.
So if you have a bunch of savings that like guarantees, you can sustain probably a pretty
high level quality life while you're focused on this thing.
If you are someone super young that has no responsibilities and can live with their parents,
like that's another way to do this, right?
Like you have your baseline of life is like, you know, is covered and you can just kind
of focus on this thing.
So yeah, for me, it's less of an experiencing and more of a, can you actually focus on this
thing in your life right now?
And there's different ways to achieve that.
Yeah, you don't want to be stressed about just basic needs and stuff like that, trying
to get something off the ground.
It's too much to think about.
Yeah, exactly.
And I think things have changed a lot when I was first starting, when I was first starting,
I think it was pretty, uh, not normal for founders to take any kind of significant salary.
It was like kind of seen as like red flag.
Yeah.
It's changed a lot now because investors realize like they're just kind of productive.
Like the end of the day, like they're going to take a salary that accounts for like 5%
of the runway or 10% of the runway.
It's like really nothing just to give them the ability to fully focus on it.
I've even seen certain investors be like, uh, send me a list of every single thing that
you need to do.
That's not related to your company.
Uh, we'll make sure that it's taken care of by someone else.
So everything from like your personal taxes to cleaning your house to like whatever, like
that they understand there's like a value in letting, letting people really focus.
I think we were kind of in that early, that stage you're talking about where it was like,
don't take a big salary culture, uh, but we had really good investors.
Once we actually did raise our A, it was much of strategic and stuff and then the VCs were
really kind.
Uh, so they were all about like making sure we weren't distracted with personal stuff.
I felt like we got paid pretty well the whole time that STEM is, but I didn't think that
was typical.
Yeah.
I think before it was like bleed for five years and then, uh, yeah, then maybe you'll
have some kind of exit.
What was the next question is location and port and for the success of your startup?
I mean, that's nothing.
You have a really good perspective on this.
Yeah.
I mean, I have always lived in the Ozarks, which is not a tech hub.
It turns out, contrary to popular belief actually, uh, there's not really a tech scene here,
but my co-founder lives in San Francisco.
So I feel like stamuz doesn't have its story.
If Eli's not out in San Francisco, because he did do a ton of fundraising out there,
like met personally with a lot of people that became close allies of the company.
Uh, I do think there's something to that, that sort of startup, uh, ecosystem in cities
where they have such a thing, just like the logistics of the travel, like, uh, there is
just a huge continue to people who still want to meet you in person and especially the older
people that have all the money.
Uh, I don't know.
I think that's changed since the pandemic and I hope so for people that want to start
a company from wherever they're at, uh, I was able to live in the Ozarks and co-found
it remotely with my, my co-founder, but we had a pretty good relationship.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Is that what you were thinking?
I was going to say.
Yeah.
I think similar, I think my perspective is similar.
It's definitely possible.
So you shouldn't let your locations stop you.
Um, literally there's examples of people starting companies in every situation.
So at this point, we know it's all possible, uh, but yeah, like, like Adam said, there
are just like tailwinds that you have when you are in a certain location.
Um, you kind of like get embedded a little bit more in, in the network, things like that.
Yeah.
And all possible to do remotely plus traveling when you need to.
I mean, like when we were in New York, it was nice to just be able to go meet investors
for coffee, whatever, whoever it was, our customers.
Now we're in Miami.
Like we have customers in New York and less has to fly there to like, you know, do launches
and stuff, uh, which, you know, it's a little bit more overhead, but again, so possible.
And it's not like Miami's Miami has its own, own scene here as I was talking about earlier.
Yeah.
It does help, but you don't need it.
And I'm sure it's even more possible now in the last few years with, I'm sure there's
a lot more of venture capitalists that are willing to not shake your hand and give you
checks since they've had to start doing the zoom stuff.
Yeah.
Exactly.
There's another question.
I think I have a lot of thoughts on this one, but, uh, for engineers considering a startup,
which comes with a significant amount of equity, can you explain equity dilution, how it impacts
engineers?
So you're talking about like as an employee or as a founder coming in as a founding engineer,
do you think the question?
How do you know dilution applies to everyone?
Yeah.
No, it does.
I guess, uh, my answer might have been different because I just don't think I just don't think
it's a good idea to work for a startup.
I think start a startup, but that's a whole other question I think.
I guess as a founding engineer, how does dilution affect you?
I mean, like you'll start out depending on how many co-founders with a big chunk in my
case, you know, we each started with 50%.
And then when I left five years ago before I sold most of my steak, I think that was
down to 20%.
We had raised something like $20 million.
It's just a, it's inevitable that your equity stake goes down as the company gets bigger,
but they always say like, what do they say?
It's better to have a little bit of a big thing.
1% of a billion.
Yeah.
Whatever.
Um, so yeah, like Adam, I think a lot of people join employees, join startups and think their
equity is going to be worth a bunch.
It like almost never is a life changing amount and like by definition, it can't be.
You have a shot.
If you can be literally the first hire, maybe, I think anything after that, like if you're
not literally the third person, there's two founders and maybe you're the third person
is kind of like my situation SST.
Anything after that is not going to be life changing.
So you're doing this thing not for a life changing outcome at that point.
And I think people don't really understand that.
Um, just with the way the numbers work, you don't, you're not going to, you're not going
to start off with enough to like make an amount that's going to like to a, I'm sure you can
make some money, but it's not going to live in your life for the most part.
Yeah.
And the dilution is like kind of crazy.
So if things ever at all don't go well, which is very likely at a startup, uh, you probably
are going to be wiped out to near zero.
Um, like if the company has to get down around with a lot of companies are going through
right now, because they were overvalued during, during the pandemic, a lot of them are taking
down rounds.
When you take a down round, what that means is your previous equity was worked too much.
So we're going to correct that effectively.
And the people they corrected from are the people of common socks with people, the founders
employees, like the non investors, uh, when that happens, it basically goes to zero.
So you need to start off with enough where even when those things happen, like you're
still going to end up with enough.
I just tell people not to consider equity at all when they're working in a startup.
I still think working at a startup is a good idea, but mostly because, uh, you are someone
earlier on in your career and it's your only way to get a ridiculous amount of responsibility
that you're going to be insulated from at a bigger company.
So it's like, if you're going to work there, it's for personal growth.
Yeah.
Not for any like financial outcome.
It can set you up incredibly well to do your next thing, but that little thing probably
isn't going to, is not going to work out.
Yeah.
I think my perspective on it is so like, uh, it's jaded the right word.
It's so, uh, skewed because as a founder, I know we dangle the equity carrots to like
employees to hopefully motivate them.
Like we want them to be aligned.
That's founder's for like, we want you to work really, really hard, uh, because you want
to see this potential outcome, but like I know how rare that is.
And even just like when employees leave or when bad things happen and you have to fire
employees, like, or lay them off, uh, that they have to buy those options.
Like all those things, I know just like the chances of any employee you hire seeing a big
payout from that equity, they're slim.
Yeah.
The buying the options thing is also another crazy thing because it's like, you basically
when you leave, you have to like make a decision, like do I think this is going to be worth
anything or should I just give up on it?
And that's like, it's always super annoying.
It's tricky.
Yeah.
A little hack to avoid dilution as much is start a company with your spouse.
Because then on day one, most founders start with 50% equity, but on day one, we started
off with a hundred percent of equity in our household, which means every single point
where we get diluted, we get diluted like a lot less than the most amazing actually.
Most people.
Hang on.
I gotta go talk to Casey.
I gotta call her.
Good idea.
It also lets you give way more equity to employees.
So we can roughly give out double because we have a lot more that we're working with.
So yeah, it's like a funny little thing we didn't realize till later.
That's incredible.
Yeah.
So for step one, find a spouse, step two.
Make sure you two work together and we'll ruin your relationship.
Step three, then sorry, honey.
Easy hack.
Okay.
Then some questions, I guess, on the product side, or actually now let's stick to more
on the business side for now, did you have to cold call in person, advertise businesses
or was your approach focused exclusively online?
I don't think it applies to stamis.
We're just like a website for consumers, which we don't have like a sales arm.
We don't make money.
Basically.
Yeah.
I'm scared.
I think more generally though, when you do start a company, you are going to be doing
some form of approaching random people, whether it's, you know, maybe you're trying to raise
money.
Maybe you are trying to do a partnership with some other company.
So there probably is, there is a lot of that.
If you haven't done that, if you're just an engineer and you've never done that type
of thing before, it is something you have to get comfortable doing.
It is a huge asset when you build a network.
I'm telling you, it is so much easier than you expect.
The moment you like plant the flag and say, I'm going to build this thing, people show
up in your life, people like show up in your emails, like it definitely is possible.
I know it feels impossible when you're starting out with nothing, but literally every single
founder you see with a good network and investors, they start off with nothing and they weren't
really like special or anything.
But plus one, this is a, how to cope with your startup money running out and employees
not getting as much freebies?
Wait, what?
What does that mean?
Employees not getting as much freebies?
Like your company's cutting back.
I mean, this just goes back to why being an employee to a startup is tough.
Like, you don't get that cushion that other companies have, but you know, big companies
are doing layoffs now too.
Yeah.
I think the tradeoff is that at a small company, if you are very good, you have a chance to
retain your job because you are good even during rough times at a big company.
It kind of doesn't matter if you're not, they just need to cut like some of our people
and you're just, you're just, you're just out.
Yeah, we didn't, I mean, it's that means we never, I guess we never changed our like
new hire budget.
So like we had like a $5,000 equipment slash whatever you need to be comfortable budget
where you could buy a desk or a chair or whatever.
And then generally like expenses were pretty loose and we trusted people, but I think you
don't hire that many people.
So you're not too worried about like in an early stage startup.
We didn't, I mean, total ended up hiring 30, 35 people, something like that.
Yeah, I think, I think a lot of companies, a lot of startups operate like big companies
and they're not and they'll hire a lot of people and another thing to like cut back and
rethink things.
That's always painful because taking away stuff was hard.
And the way we think about it at SST is for where we want to go, like our ambitious, most
ambitious goals, we probably over the whole lifetime of our company to get there will
probably only use a higher 10 people total.
So when you kind of think of it that way, like I only need to find 10 like really amazing
people.
You kind of don't sweat like the little details around like how much exactly are they making
or like, what are they getting?
It's, we know if there's someone's good, like it's just going to be worth it because we
only need to find 10 of them.
How do you know your product is ready for development, like from a technical level?
I know like the indie hacker, right answer, like if you think it's ready, just it's not
or you're too late.
No, say the real answer.
Okay, real answer.
So what we did was we had a deadline tied to the real world.
We were launching a product for NBA fans and we were starting in July and in October the
season starts and we really wanted to launch it with the peak excitement around the season
starting.
So that, that was like a three month or whatever forcing function where we're going to ship
whatever we have in those three months.
Our product is a little unique in the sense that, I mean, it's just an input.
It's like Google.
It's like a search box and then it's just how good are the results.
So it was pretty easy for us to just say like, it's good enough.
I don't know with more complicated.
Maybe you want to speak with Boomi like from like a customer driven development standpoint
or something.
Yeah, I think what Adam was losing earlier with the whole indie hacker thing where it's
like, just ship garbage is fine.
So the mentality, which okay, I get it just comes down and like, does that click with
you?
Right?
So for me, no, it doesn't because a big part of my advantage is that when people use my
product, they're going to feel like, Oh, this like feels like they're not going to be able
to put their finger on this feels better than most stuff that I use.
And that's a big selling point for anything that I try to build.
I mean, there's a flip side, right?
I can like spend way too much time getting there and building something that nobody actually
wants.
So the key is don't forget that your idea for your company is probably going to change
a lot when you have people using it and they tell you about their problems and ideas.
Like feedback is insane.
Like I'll go from not caring about a concept to like obsessing over solving it because
I just heard that somebody had like, I like witnessed someone with a specific problem.
So it's good to have stuff out there because it makes everything a lot easier when you're
working without having any users, you're just making up stuff and you're trying to have
a vision.
When you have users, they just tell you exactly what to do.
So it is nice to have stuff out there.
That said, like, I'm just, I think we've gone too far with that advice and now people
are just like showing off how shitty their stuff is when they launch and I'm like it.
That's not the goal.
Is that the world we want to live in like, yeah, how do I convince my co-founders time
to abandon?
Have you had conversations like that?
Yeah, actually before I was fired, I mean, I was, I don't know if I should say this.
I don't know.
Honestly.
Ooh, this is our hundred listeners are going to get a little scoop here.
Like I don't, I just don't know if like investors could come after me or something like fiduciary
duty or something.
I don't know.
Should I not say it, Dax?
What am I about to say?
I don't know what you're going to say.
Okay.
Well, I was very on the record with Eli that we just got to, we got to get out.
We got to like, not abandon it, but every time we had an opportunity to sell, I was very
hard.
I'm like, let's just sell this thing because we just didn't have like a plan to make money.
And we didn't know exactly everyone, like our investors, Disney, Google, these people,
like their strategics, they don't, they're just like, grow it big, make it big.
Don't worry about money.
But like we had to eventually worry about money.
And I just felt like our best path is to get acquired by when these companies.
So I was very like adamant, in fact, I sent an email or I sent a message to Eli one time
in the last months before I left, that was like, we just, we got to tell, I'm not going
to say who, but we got to tell this person, we're ready to do a deal.
Like it was this acquisition talks that kind of gone on.
And it was like me basically saying, let's just tell them we're in business, whatever.
He got very upset that like you don't do that.
You don't.
It's just fiduciary duty, something, something.
I don't know.
I probably broke some rules.
Some startup rules.
I'm sorry, I've repented for my startup sins.
I don't know.
That was a, that was me just like, it's 10 set day.
I'm done.
I can't do this anymore.
My wife was so done.
Casey was just so tired of like waiting for it to get better because we had cut back salaries.
We had like done a lot of things in the last year because fundraising was tough.
So we were just kind of personally pretty done with it.
Yeah.
I think it's a, it's hard.
I mean, it's, we started by talking about like, you know, not giving up and that is a
big part of it.
But yeah, there are situations like that.
I mean, I did similar situation where I try to convince the founder to, again, similar.
I wasn't saying like abandoned it.
I was saying, just look for any kind of exit and we can start on our next thing.
Yeah.
Because in that situation, it was cause like he accepted this ridiculous deal that wasn't
that left him with like no ownership.
And I was like, it doesn't matter if this company like is incredible.
You have no ownership or control.
The whole point of doing all of this is now gone.
Just it's okay.
Like it's your first startup.
It was probably going to fail anyway.
Like just write it off and let's move on.
We can do something else, but I couldn't get through to him.
He kind of saw it as like, no, this is like the vision.
Like I need to stick with it.
I need to stay with it.
And I have, he's still working on it and I've lived like five different lives since then.
And it's like, I can't believe he's still like doing the same thing.
Also it's a little bit of like, this is a, this is a petty, but I'm going to say it when
I got fired.
So pretty much the whole time I was there, it was just me for a year.
Then we hired like one, we hired Allen, we hired one person, then we hired another person,
basically three, three engineers for, you know, three years or so.
And we built the product and then they fired me and before they fired me, I like all engineers
left as well.
And like I think Allen joined a company advise and another one joined one of the companies
I was consulting at.
So all the whole engineering team was gone.
They replaced us with a bunch of other engineers.
And I believe at some point it was like eight or nine engineers, right?
And it's been three or four years since then and they were going to like rewrite the whole
thing.
I can still go to the site and I can see it is still running the same, the exact same
product, the exact same application that we left.
Like it's now we've been gone for more time than we were there and they have not been able
to rebuild this thing.
And that brings me so much happiness, like you thought, you thought I was like not important
is you can just let me go and it was going to be fine.
Well, you're still running the same thing or so doing the same thing, all the same bugs
are still there.
Like I can see them.
I love it.
And it's been years and I don't I have no, at this point, I have no idea what what they
were doing.
Like, I don't know how it's like not even a little replaced at this point, so that makes
me feel great.
Makes me feel great.
I go check.
Every once in a while.
And it was good.
All right, let me see if there's I think we got through all the questions.
Let me see.
Oh, do we really?
Yeah, I think that was it unless I missed something, but I guess we've gone on a little
longer than normal.
That's okay.
Do you have any other thoughts?
I don't think so.
It's just fun, though.
Yeah, it was fun.
I think just to summarize, if you're interested in all doing it, don't wait too long.
Like, you are ready today, as long as you can dedicate some time to it.
Find someone you really trust and can work with.
I mean, like Adam said, it could potentially like torpedo your relationship, but it hasn't
happened to me yet, so can also work out and we're in many other and good terms again.
So like, our story is one of it torpedoed a lifelong friendship.
And then it's back.
Like, we're good now.
Yeah.
One thing I did think back just hearing you tell that last story is like, on the one
hand, in the same podcast, you've said that, like, the key is to stick it out and to live
long enough.
Things will work out.
But then, on the other hand, this founder that you worked with, a CEO, stuck it out,
but maybe just like, needs to read the situation better.
Like, he is keeping it alive long enough.
Yeah.
But like, what are his incentives to do so?
Like, what is the payoff if he only owns 3% of the company or whatever?
So you've got to live long enough that the company makes it, but if the company makes
it and you don't really benefit that much, what was it all?
Was it worse?
A decade of your life?
Like, that's the question.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
It still all has to make sense.
It shouldn't have.
The outcome shouldn't be like, oh, if I just worked at some boring company for 10 years,
I would have been in a better place.
As soon as that becomes true, like, the whole thing doesn't make sense.
Good stuff.
This is like a double episode.
I think.
I can't really read the timer from here.
Is that long?
I mean, is it been 39?
Is that what that says?
39, yeah.
I guess.
I think it's close to double.
Let's do the actual math.
The listeners needs an Amshkin.
All right.
Thanks.
See ya.
[music]